# ChaoGtae
Chaotic gate - Chua's Diode (Non-linear active resistor)

CONTENTS

1. Chaos Theory
2. Chaos Theory in Electronics
3. Chaotic criterion for electronic circuit
4. Chua’s Circuit- a circuit exhibiting Chaotic
behaviour
5. Chaotic Computing gates (Chaogates) using Chua’s
Circuit
6. Conclusion
7. References

Chaos Theory

Chaos theory is a part of mathematics that deals with
systems that are-
• Deals with nonlinear, dynamic systems
• Very sensitive to initial conditions
• Ex- Non-periodic Oscillator
A complex chaotic system’s randomness also exhibits
some underlying patterns, interconnectedness, constant
feedback loops, repetition, self-similarity, fractals, and
self-organization that are of great importance.

Chaos Theory: Application in digital electronics
• We this property of nonlinear dynamic systems to
design computing devices with the capacity to
reconfigure or morph into a range of logic gates. The
resultant morphing gates are termed chaogates.
• As compared to conventional field programmable
gate array element, where reconfiguration is

achieved by switching between multiple single-
purpose gates, reconfigurable chaotic logic gates

(RCLGs) are comprised of chaotic elements that

morph or reconfigure through the control of the
pattern already present in their constitutive nonlinear
element.
• So basically, a circuit using standard components will
be designed which could act as all 7 logic gates AND,
OR etc. and then sequential logic circuits can be made
from that Chaogate to handle complex operations

Chaotic criterion for electronic circuit
An autonomous circuit made from standard components
(resistors, capacitors, inductors) must satisfy 3 conditions
before it can display chaotic behaviour. It must contain:
• one or more nonlinear elements,
• one or more locally active resistors,
• Three or more energy-storage elements.
Basic Procedure of Non-linear circuit inspired from

Standard gates-
Chua's circuit is the simplest electronic circuit meeting

these criteria.

AIM: To Design Chaotic computer chip

(chaogate)

• To design a Two input RCLG which will yield all
fundamental logic functions by “programming”
different dynamical systems.
• We show that the patterns produced by varying the
initial conditions and the parameters of a chaotic
system, as well as the patterns produced by its time
evolution, are amenable to performing computation.
• We then exploit exponential sensitivity to initial
conditions to achieve rapid switching between all the
logic gates generated by each representative chaotic
element
• Such a chip of arrays of morphing chaotic logic gates
(RCLG) can then be programmed to perform higher
order functions (such as memory, arithmetic logic,
input/output operations, ...) and to rapidly switch
between such functions

Chua’s Circuit-

• Chua’s Circuit- an electronic circuit that exhibits
classic chaotic behavior. It is a "nonperiodic
oscillator"; i.e. it produces an oscillating waveform
that, unlike an ordinary electronic oscillator, never
"repeats“.
• This device is not sold commercially but can be
implemented in various ways by active circuits,
especially to create Chaotic computing chips

The circuit can be broken down into three parts:
A. The inductor L (together with its associated resistance
r), the resistor R, and the capacitors C1 and C2 make up a
conventional linear oscillation circuit. With the rest of the circuit
shorted out, this part would give damped oscillations.
B. The op-amp and associate resistors have the effect of
a negative resistance of size -R1. This is still a linear circuit
element - it does not by itself give chaos, although it acts as
the source of energy for the dynamics.
C. The diode pair gives the nonlinearity in the circuit. The diodes
simply serve to switch in the resistance R2 in parallel with the
resistance -R1 when the voltage gets larger than the switch on
voltage.
The combined effect of B and C is to give a nonlinear negative
resistance of value -R1 for V<Vc and -R1R2/(R2-R1) for V>Vc so
that the effective circuit is:

For DC signals the capacitors act as open circuits, and the
inductor as a short circuit, so the operating point I0,V0 is given by
one of the two intersections of the line of slope -1/R (the load
line) with the nonlinear I-V characteristic. (This stationary
operating point can be seen by running the applet
with C2=75nF for example, when the oscillations gradually decay
away.) For suitable values of C1,C2 and L these stationary
solutions (fixed points) become unstable to oscillations, and then
to chaotic dynamics, first circulating e.g. the I0,V0 fixed point,
then switching back and forth between oscillating about
the +I0,+V0 and then -I0,-V0 points.

A "locally active resistor" is a device that has negative
resistance and is active (it can amplify), providing the power to
generate the oscillating current. The locally active resistor and
nonlinearity are combined in the circuit, and can be considered
as a single diode.

SIMULATION RESULT

Figure shows the voltage traces V(v1) and V(v2) respectively
from Chua’s circuit as a function of time. This can easily be
construed for noise.

Figure 2- When graphed in phase space, V(v2) vs. V(v1) the
beautiful “double scroll” attractor presents itself and it’s clear
that this system is more than just noise.

Universal Chaotic Gate

Necessary and sufficient conditions to be satisfied
simultaneously by the nonlinear dynamical element, in order to
be capable of flexibly implementing the logical operations AND,
OR, XOR and NOT with the same computing module.

State is represented by a variable x, x0 is the initial state of the
system
Step 1 - Inputs: x → x0 +I1 +I2 for 2-input gates such as the
AND, OR, XOR, NAND and NOR operations, and x → x0 +I for
the 1-input gate such as the NOT operation. Here, the input

value I = 0 when logic input is 0 and I = Vin when logic input is 1
(where Vin is a positive constant).
Step 2 - Dynamical update, i.e. x → f(x) where f(x) is a strongly
nonlinear function
Step 3 - Threshold mechanism to obtain output V0:
V0 = 0 if f(x) ≤ E, and
V0 = f(x) − E if f(x) > E
where E is the threshold
For NOT gate, this is interpreted as logic output 0 if V0 = 0 and
Logic Output 1 if V0 Vin.

Block diagram of chaogate
Basic schematic diagram for implementing a 2 input logic cell
with a continuous time dynamical system. Here VC determines
the nature of the logic response, and the 2 inputs are I1,I2.

Constructing logic gates using Chua's diode

Conclusion

• In this project, the idea to combine Chua’s Chaotic Circuit
and Logic Gates to construct a Universal ,morph able
Chaotic Gate has been presented.
• Software and hardware based implementation of a fully
working Chaotic computing chip is yet to be achieved, due
to complexity
• The present design utilizes known and discrete
components, which leads to a complex and large circuit,
difficult to use in VLSI
• For a clear cut edge over statically hardwired circuits, the
dynamic chip should have a simpler and more compact
design.
